Editorial review: Document WebXR visibilitymaskchange event (#43975)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/xrvisibilitymaskchangeevent/vertices/index.md

---
title: "XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent: vertices property"
short-title: vertices
slug: Web/API/XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent/vertices
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent.vertices
---

{{APIRef("WebXR Device API")}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

> The read-only **`vertices`** property of the {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent")}} interface is an array of coordinates representing the vertices required to draw the entire scene displayed in the {{domxref("XRView")}}. If this array is empty, the whole region of the `XRView` will be drawn.

Reviewer: Maybe also reference here that it's intended to be referenced into by the indices property.

Author: Sure, makes sense. I've added the following in a new paragraph:

> The {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent.indices", "indices")}} array specifies the indices of the `vertices` array that should be drawn to display the currently visible part of the scene displayed in the `XRView`.

Reviewer 2: More detail required than that to allow readers to understand what is going on 

If these are floats, then they are numbers, not "points" so my guess in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43975/changes#r3215903956 is completely wrong. But the comment is valid - a reader should be able to work out how this works.

Author: Right, I've looked up some more information, adjusted the `indices` and `vertices` descriptions, and added a paragraph on how this actually works to the `vertices` page. I'm not 100% sure if I'm right, so it'd be good for @alcooper91 to check this over.

---
title: "XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent: vertices property"
short-title: vertices
slug: Web/API/XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent/vertices
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent.vertices
---

{{APIRef("WebXR Device API")}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

The read-only **`vertices`** property of the {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent")}} interface is an array of coordinate values representing a visibility mask. If this array is empty, the whole region of the `XRView` will be drawn.

The {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent.indices", "indices")}} array specifies the array positions of the vertices inside the `vertices` array that define the currently visible part of the scene displayed in the `XRView`.

> The coordinate values available in the `vertices` array are x and y value pairs representing points on a flat mask in clip space. They define the boundary of the visibility mask — the region of the display that is actually visible to the user. Anything outside the mask is not visible to the user, and does not need to be drawn. It can be skipped to improve performance.

Reviewer 2: @chrisdavidmills This is getting there, but I am still unsure.

What this says is that "vertices is an array of coordinate values representing a visibility mask" and the "indices  array specifies the array positions of the vertices "

1. From "vertices is an array of coordinate values representing a visibility mask"  the implication is that the array defines the mask, so there doesn't seem to be any reason to need the `indices` array?
2. My "guess" is that `vertices` contains a whole lot of points in an array and but not all of them are used for the mask - you iterate through `indicies` to find which points are relevant and then use them to build a mask. But 
   - That isn't what it says.
   - If it is true I'd like to know why you don't just have verticies array that only contains the verticies that are needed.
   - I'd like to know how the mask is constructed from the verticies. Are they just points joined in order, with the mask being the inner polygon? That then being the "mask in clip space"
3. The values are "x and y value pairs representing points". However a Float32Array is a flat array - i.e. it is a list of floats, not "inherently" a list of float pairs. So are we saying that each point is two elements in this array, x, followed by y.

An example in this page would not hurt.

Reviewer 2: Ah looking at your example in the interface page, I think they are encoded as x,y in order. Gemini seems to think that the points are interpretted as groups of triangles, which would imply that you must have a certain number of points to always divide cleanly by three.
If that's true, all needs to be captured.

Author: > so there doesn't seem to be any reason to need the `indices` array?

I don't know why this approach is used. I wondered about this as well. Maybe @alcooper91 can provide an answer here.

> So are we saying that each point is two elements in this array, x, followed by y.

Yes, I believe so. And the z-axis value in each case is a constant value.

Reviewer: Yes the Z is implied to be a constant value. You do need the indices array. It’s a common graphics tactic for encoding a mesh. Say the region is square. 
vertices may be (groupings solely for the purpose of legibility in this discussion):
(0,0),(0,1),(1,1),(1,0)
With indices being: 0,1,2,  0,3,2

obviously for the simple square all the points could just define a polygon; but it’s meant to allow you to just pass the values to a graphics library. The indices should be a multiple of 3 representing the triangles used to build the mesh.

Author: OK, I've rewritten the vertices page to include all this detail. Thanks for the explanation, @alcooper91.

---
title: "XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent: vertices property"
short-title: vertices
slug: Web/API/XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent/vertices
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent.vertices
---

{{APIRef("WebXR Device API")}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

> The read-only **`vertices`** property of the {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent")}} interface is an array representing the coordinate values of a visibility mask. If this array is empty, the whole region of the `XRView` will be drawn.

Reviewer 2: To make it clear that this isn't the mask that is used, it contributes to the mask.
```suggestion
The read-only **`vertices`** property of the {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent")}} interface is an array representing all the coordinate values that may be used in the visibility mask. If this array is empty, the whole region of the `XRView` will be drawn.
```

## Value

A {{domxref("Float32Array")}}.

## Description

> Each pair of values available in the `vertices` array represents the `x` and `y` coordinate values of a point on a flat mask in clip space. In each case, the `z` coordinate value is implied to be a constant value, `-1`. So for example, a simple square mask might be represented by the following array:

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure that z has any meaning in this context. It is in the example - but it maybe that's because we're using our 2D mask with a 3D libraries. So the existance of Z is something we need to cater for but it isn't inherent in the use of the API. I could be wrong, but either way ...

```suggestion
Each pair of values available in the `vertices` array represents the `x` and `y` coordinate values of a point on a flat mask in clip space. So for example, a simple square mask might be represented by the following array:
```

Now if I am wrong, then I still thin ^^^ is good. We should explain the relevance of Z, if there is any (???), at the end of the section.

```plain
[0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0]
```

which represents the x,y coordinates (0,0), (0,1), (1,1), and (1,0). These coordinates the boundary of the visibility mask — the region of the display that is actually visible to the user. Anything outside the mask is not visible to the user, and does not need to be drawn. It can be skipped to improve performance.

The {{domxref("XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent.indices", "indices")}} array specifies the index position of each coordinate pair (not individual array index) inside the `vertices` array that define the triangles used to draw the currently visible part of the scene displayed in the `XRView`. The number of contained values should therefore be a multiple of three. A sample `indices` array related to the above `vertices` example might looks like this:

```plain
[0,1,2,0,3,2]
```

> Which represent two triangles represented by coordinate pairs 0, 1, and 2, and 0, 3, and 2, which can be used to create a basic mesh. The `vertices` and `indices` arrays are designed to be passed to a graphics library.

Reviewer 2: This sounds about right, but can you pass it through a technical expert again.

Author: Sure thing. @alcooper91, could you have another quick read through https://pr43975.review.mdn.allizom.net/en-US/docs/Web/API/XRVisibilityMaskChangeEvent/vertices to make sure it is technically accurate? Thanks.

Reviewer: LGTM
